Blowing snow, freezing temperatures, icy sidewalkswinter creates stellar conditions for running, doesn't it? Cold-weather running certainly comes with additional challenges, but that doesn't mean you have to resign yourself to plodding out your miles inside on the treadmill all season. With a good pair of winter running shoes on your feetalong with a running jacket, gloves, and other winter running staplesyou can run outside and stay comfortable all winter long. So what is a winter running shoe, exactly? Our selections include both road and trail shoes, but all of them provide good grip and a comfortable, stable ride. Several of them feature weatherproof uppers for extra protection from rain and slush. No matter the terrain, no matter the weather, there's a shoe in this guide that'll help you keep running right through it. Despite the frigid weather, your winter running shoes shouldn't differ all that much from your standard go-to running shoes. If you run on sidewalks and roads, you're still going to pick a road shoe, rather than a trail shoe. Likewise, your preferred shoe feelfirm or plush, low or high drop, support to counter overpronationwon't change just because of the weather. No matter what kind of running shoe experience you like, look for winter running shoes that meet those needs. Like every rule, though, there is an exception: Many racing-oriented max-cushion shoes, such as the Adidas Adizero Adios Pro 3 and Nike Vaporfly 3, have narrow soles and high stack heights that lift your feet higher off the ground than other running shoes. That combination can make you feel unstable under ideal circumstances, so pairing them with icy roads can be a recipe for slips and falls. If you prefer a plush, well-cushioned shoe, keep an eye on stack height, or look for a wider sole. Keeping all of your core preferences in mind, let's talk about what makes a running shoe especially well-suited to winter running. Trevor Raab To add your own lugs, hit the hardware store for #10 x 3/8-inch hex-head screws. Drilling into the thickest parts of the sole, add six on the forefoot and four on the heel. Lakota Gambill Inov-8's X-Talon G 235 already has aggressive 8mm lugs;there are still plenty of options for serious grip if you don't want to hack your outsoles. Keeping your feet dry while running through rain and snow is important. If your shoes get soaked, your feet will get cold, leaving you uncomfortable and potentially in danger of getting frostbite. To prevent this issue, many winter running shoes have uppers with an integrated water-resistant membrane. Gore-Tex membranes are the most common, though other brands have their own versions, likeSaucony's Runshield. These materials block light rain, snow, and splashes, but make the upper less breathable. They also won't stop water from soaking your feet at the ankles. When running in more intense or steady rain, some runners forgo waterproof uppers altogether and simply accept that their feet will get wet. In that scenario, a pair ofmerino wool running socks, which keep your feet warm even when damp, are essential. Personally, I prefer a waterproof upper, but I've also taken comfortable (albeit short) winter runs with wet toes in merino socks. Go with what feels best to you. Keeping your feet warm and comfortable hinges on having a good pair of running socks, but your shoes can help out, too. Avoid premium racing shoes like the Nike Alphafly, which feature thin, highly porous uppers: They don't have the durability to withstand rough winter conditions and won't keep your feet warm. Instead, look for uppers with thick mesh overlays at the front of the toe box, and lots of padding around the ankle and the interior. A beefy upper will trap some heat and, more importantly, provide protection from icy debris that you might encounter on snow-lined streets. While running on wet paths, snow, and ice, reliable traction is every bit as important as warmth. Look for shoes with full-coverage rubber outsoles that will generate grip on wet, slippery surfaces, rather than small patches of rubber on the bottom. Shoes with rubber bottoms are also more durable, so they won't wear down quickly on dirty, gritty pavement. Trail shoes with small lugs (cleat-like protrusions on the outsole) can also work well on pavement, and will provide plenty of grip for road runners. The Hoka Challenger 7, for example, is made for trails but plays nice with wintery roads. If you're a trail runner facing mucky and/or snowy trails, it's time to step up to larger lugs5mm or more. They can dig deep into snow and soft, pliable dirt to create solid footing when other shoes would slip. Your requirements will change slightly if you plan to go out after the temperature drops below freezing and you find yourself running on ice. Whether you're on a road or a trail, you should grab a pair of shoes with ice spikes on the outsoles to maintain traction on slippery patches. Shoes like the Hoka Speedgoat 5 GTX Spike and Icebug NewRun BUGrip GTX are equipped with metal nubs that bite into ice, preventing slips. Shoes with ice spikes are noisy and uncomfortable on hard surfaces without ice, so they are definitely a niche purchase, but essential if you plan to run over ice frequently. Runner's World has helped runners of all stripes, from veteran marathoners to casual joggers and gym rats with a treadmill habit, for more than 50 years. Gear coverage is a huge part of what we do. At the heart of that coverage is the RW test team, a group of editors who test the latest and greatest running gear, including shirts, sports bras, headlamps, running shoes and more. Right now, the test team includes Runner-in-Chief Jeff Dengate, Test Editor Amanda Furrer, and Test Editor Morgan Petruny. They take their gear seriously and go to great lengths to test it, both in the RW Shoe Lab (for example, cutting up shoes to learn more about their materials and construction) and out in the wildby putting in lots of miles. also tests new running gear and submits feedback after putting in time with it. For this guide, our recommendations were selected by veteran contributor Michael Charboneau and then reviewed and approved by Test Editor Amanda Furrer. Charboneau is a freelance writer and former gear editor for Runner's World. He's written about running shoes and gear for the last six years at a number of publications, including Men's Journal, Field Mag, and InsideHook. When selecting the best winter running shoes, I aimed to include picks that are suited for a variety of wintertime conditions, including freezing rain, snow, and ice, for both pavement and trails. Several of the shoes on this list, including the Altra Timp 5 and Salomon Genesis, have been vetted or tested by editors here at Runner's World or by members of our capable wear-test team. They were selected based on our test runs and data from our RW Shoe Lab and mechanical tests, where we've checked and re-checked each shoe's energy return, measured its midsole softness and flexibility, and assessed its stability features. (For an even deeper breakdown of our rigorous testing process, check out how we evaluate shoes.) Not all of our recommendations have been tested this way, though. For selections like the Puma Deviate Nitro 3 and Brooks Divide 5, I spoke with shoe brand representatives about their best winter models, solicited notes from the RW test team, and consulted user feedback and reviews. I also incorporated my own shoe testing experiences: After a few runs in the Icebug NewRun BUGrip GTX on both roads and trails last winter, I felt strongly that it deserved a shout out here. No matter what kind of weather you're facing this winter, at least one of these great pairs will work well for you. * Best Winter Running Gear PROS * Comfortable, well-cushioned ride * Works well on varying terrain CONS * EVA midsole firms up in below-freezing conditions Weight8.9 oz (M), 7.7 oz (W)Drop5mmHeel Stack31mm (M), 29mm (W)Lug Depth4.5mm The Hoka Challenger is Runner-in-Chief Jeff Dengate's go-to shoe for winter running thanks to its plush midsole, which keeps feet warm as it serves up a well-cushioned ride. The newest iteration, the Challenger 7, has thicker cushioning than its predecessor, but weighs less. With its rocker-shaped sole, which curves up at the front and back of the shoe, generous compression-molded EVA cushioning and lugged rubber outsole, you move smooth and sure-footed over road and trail. I ran through puddles, mud, leaves, wet grass, rocksyou name it, said one RW wear tester. Not once did I feel unsteady, uncomfortable, or out of control. If you plan to run through snow, we recommend upgrading to the slightly more expensive Challenger 7 GTX, which features a water-resistant Gore-Tex upper. That said, the standard model is a more dynamic winter-ready option, with a snug, comfortable fit and a breathable upper to keep your feet from overheating. Buy Men's Buy Women's PROS * Suitable for both roads and mild trails * Grippy, durable outsole CONS * Firm feel Weight10.2 oz (M), 8.9 oz (W)Drop8mmHeel Stack24mmLug Depth3.5mm The Brooks Divide 5 is designed to play equally well in the dirt and on the pavement. That all-terrain versatility makes it a great choice for winter running, where traction is paramount. At just $110, it's a steal of a seasonal shoe. It won't dazzle anyone with cutting-edge shoe tech, but it's a capable performer for everyday training runs. A relatively thin EVA midsole offers reliable cushioning and a good feel for the ground. (Just don't expect a pillowy ride.) The mesh upper offers a comfy fit and has overlays across the toe box to protect your feet from scrapes and bumps. On the bottom, the full-coverage rubber outsole is studded with 3.5mm lugsshort enough to work on the pavement, but long enough to bite into dirt and wet ground for confident traction in wintertime conditions. Grooves in the outsole boost the shoe's flexibility and ensure you get smooth transitions in every step. If you're looking for a bargain on a winter shoe, start your search with the Divide. You'll make your budget, and have the tools you need to keep your run routine going all winter long. Buy Men's Buy Women's PROS * Soft, propulsive midsole design * Carbon fiber plate adds responsiveness * Excellent traction CONS * High stack could feel unstable for some runners Weight8.8 oz (M/W)Drop10mmHeel Stack39mmLug Depth0mm The water-repellant Puma Deviate Nitro 3 Winterized offers superb grip and a propulsive ride that's perfect for runners aiming for fast paces on their winter training runs. We loved the previous version (it earned an Editor's Choice Award in 2023), and the current design brings back all the tech that made it such a standout. The midsole is made from Puma's Nitrofoam, a nitrogen-infused polyether block amide (PEBA) cushion that creates an exceptionally soft, springy underfoot sensation without adding much weight. Plus, PEBA foam doesn't harden up in the cold like EVA, so its cushioning remains effective in lower temperatures. It also features an embedded carbon-infused Pwrplate that stabilizes the thick sole and helps you get more energy return in each step. The plate has a distinctive forked design, which creates some lateral flexibility so the shoe can better negotiate uneven terrain and create a more comfortable ride. Like any carbon fiber plate, however, it's stiff from heel to toe, so you get a snappy underfoot sensation that helps you go fast. For rainy, snowy weather, the Winterized version adds extra protection. A water-repellent cover over the laces keeps splashes and slush from soaking your feet mid-run. Finally, the rubber outsole is optimized for multi-surface grip. Zippy and protective, the Deviate Nitro 3 Winterized will help you blaze through your training routine this season. Buy Men's Buy Women's Credit: Thomas Hengge PROS * Excellent traction * Spacious toe box CONS * Lugs are too large for road running Weight10.1 oz (M), 8.3 oz (W)Drop5mmHeel Stack33mmLug Depth5mm Topo Athletic designed the MTN Racer with a toothy outsole that creates lockdown grip off the pavement, earning a place among our favorite trail shoes of 2023. Its Vibram megagrip outsole and large 6mm lugs hold firm on dirt, mud, and soft ground, so you can confidently propel yourself forward even when the trail turns soggy. It's a nimble, grippy shoe that excels in difficult conditions. Like other Topo Athletic shoes, the MTN Racer features a spacious toe box, which gives your toes plenty of room to spread out and makes the shoe feel stable on uneven ground. The latest iteration also includes a beefed up midsole with more cushioning, so you'll get a comfortable ride with good shock absorption and more protection for your feet. Last, but certainly not least for winter runners: The upper includes attachment points for a gaiter, so you can keep muck, slush, and other debris out of your shoes. If your route has patches of mud or saturated ground, you'll be glad to have these shoes on your feet. Buy Men's Buy Women's PROS * Gore-Tex upper repels splashes and light rain * DNA Loft v3 cushioning offers a soft ride CONS * Steep drop may feel uncomfortable for some runners Weight10.1 oz (M), 8.9 oz (W)Drop12mmHeel Stack25mmLug Depth0mm The Brooks Ghost 16 is currently one of our favorite running shoes, thanks to its soft-yet-responsive cushioning, snug fit, and durability. The waterproof GTX version of the shoe is perfect for runners facing wet weather this winter. The Ghost 16 features Brooks' DNA Loft v3 cushioning, a nitrogen-injected foam that gives it an ideal balance between soft shock absorption and bouncy energy return. On the bottom, a rubber outsole stretches from heel to toe, providing confident grip, and it has a segmented design that allows the shoe to flex with your feet for smooth transitions. Up top, a Gore-Tex Invisible Fit membrane is bonded directly to the upper, blocking water without adding bulk so you can power through slush, puddles, and light precipitation without soaking your feet. The Brooks Ghost is an icon for a reason: It's a capable shoe that works well for all kinds of runners. The extra Gore-Tex extends that capability to rough winter weather, as well. Buy Men's Buy Women's PROS * Carbide steel ice spikes * Boa closure makes shoes easy to get on and off CONS * Slightly loose fit at the ankle * Noisy on pavement and concrete Weight11.6 oz (M), 9.7 oz (W)Drop7mmHeel Stack22.3mmLug Depth4.5mm (studs protrude an additional 1.5mm) Swedish shoemaker Icebug specializes in sneakers for cold-weather running. The NewRun is a high-performance pick with exceptional grip on icy, snow-covered roads and paths. The secret is its BUGrip outsole, which utilizes a rubber tread embedded with 17 carbide steel studs for superb traction over ice. In addition, the shoe is relatively wide at the midfoot and has a spacious toe box, giving your feet plenty of room and making the shoe feel more stable. Although the EVA midsole isn't especially plush, it's flexible at the forefoot and generates a responsive, comfortable ride. I tried a test pair on a mountain trail run, and the NewRun impressed me with its lively feel and excellent grip, including on rocky surfaces and steep inclines and declines. Up top, a Gore-Tex upper blocks snow and splashes, and the Boa closure system saves you from fumbling over knots with cold, numb fingersjust turn the dial to your desired tightness. Even turned tight, it may leave a small gap around the ankle, though. While great for icy sidewalks and trails, the NewRun's ice studs make awful noise on dry pavement, so I'd save these for cold, snowy days with temps below freezing. Buy Men's Buy Women's PROS * Plush cushioning * Protective toe bumper * Grippy outsole tread * Includes attachment points for adding a gaiter CONS * Initially stiff * Rubbing on pinky toes despite roomy toe box Weight9.8 oz (M), 8.6 oz (W)Drop0mmHeel Stack29mmLug Depth4mm The Altra Timp 5 won a Runner's World Shoe Award this year for its lightweight design, roomy fit, and comfy, energetic ride. It excels on wet, rugged terrain, making it a solid choice for zero-drop runners this winter. The Timp 5 features Altra's Ego Max midsole foam, a compression-molded EVA material that creates a pillowy underfoot sensation. Combined with Altra's trademark wide sole shape and spacious toe box, the design gives your feet a comfortable, accommodating fit. It also helps keep you stable, which becomes especially important in icy, dicey weather. The new version also adds a Vibram Megagrip rubber outsole, made with a sticky compound that ensures lockdown traction. One RW tester got caught in a snowstorm while trying these shoes, but it didn't derail her run: In the Timp, I felt confident with every step, she said. I didn't worry about falling once. If you like a flat, but well-cushioned platform, the Timp 5 should be at the top of your list for running shoes to try this winter. As with some of the shoes on this list, Altra makes a waterproof Timp 5 GTX. With its excellent grip and sturdy build, the standard version is plenty capable for most winter runs, but the GTX version is a worthy upgrade if you'll be facing lots of wet weather. Buy Men's Buy Women's Best for Technical Trails PROS * Stable on challenging terrain * Excellent grip CONS * Firm cushioning Weight9.8 oz (M), 8.3 oz (W)Drop8mmHeel Stack34mmLug Depth4.5mm The Salomon Genesis has an impressive racing pedigree: It's an evolution of the S/Lab Genesis, which helped Courtney Dauwalter set a new course record at the 2023 Western States 100. This more approachable Genesis is more of a trainer than a racing shoe, but still has serious trail chopsRW editor Pat Heine-Holmberg wore a pair when he ran the Tor des Gants trail race in 2023. This year, it earned an RW Shoe Award for its stable ride and excellent grip. The Genesis cushions your feet with Salomon's Energy Foam, which blends EVA and olefin block copolymers (OBC) for good energy return. The OBC also keeps the foam from hardening in cold weather. The exterior is built for climbing and rough trails, too. A durable Matryx upper can stand up to lots of scrapes and bumps, protecting your feet. Down below, a Contagrip rubber outsole offers the grip you need to power through steep, gnarly terrain. Buy Men's Buy Women's Best Non-Studded Shoe for Snow and Slush PROS * Grippy outsole designed specifically for traction on icy surfaces * Water-resistant upper CONS * No outsole spikes Weight10.6 oz (M), 9.1 oz (W)Drop4mmHeel Stack25mmLug Depth3.5mm A winter-forward version of Saucony's longstanding Peregrine trail shoe, the Peregrine Ice+ 3 provides impressive traction in wintry conditions. While it can't compete with the traction you'll get from our picks with metal studs for ice, the Peregrine Ice+ 3 has a specialized outsole that generates good traction on snowy, slushy ground. Like the standard Peregrine, the Ice+ features EVA-based Pwrrun midsole foam paired with a bouncy TPU-based Pwrrun+ sockliner for responsive cushioning, and the wide sole design gives it a stable rideespecially important on slick sidewalks and trails. It also features a water-resistant upper and an embedded rock plate for extra protection from exposed roots or rocks on your path. Underfoot, the outsole is made from Pwrtrac Ice, a special rubber that incorporates bits of glass for extra grip on frozen pavement. The unique outsole worked well in RW testing. This Saucony was exceptional across the board, said one tester, wonderfully responsive and capable across slippery bridges and loose gravel to snow, with an amazing fit that needed none of my usual lacing tricks. With the Peregrine Ice+ 3 on your feet, slush and snowy ground won't derail your run. Buy Men's Buy Women's WITH EXPERT RUNNER MICHAEL CHARBONEAU Ethylene-Vinyl Acetate (EVA), one of the most common materials for making midsole cushioning, tends to harden when the temperature drops to around freezing. As a result, many runners complain about their shoes hardening in the cold. Ideally, I'd recommend looking for winter running shoes with TPU or other, non-EVA cushioning, which won't freeze up as much. The Puma Deviate Nitro 3 Winterized, which utilizes a polyether block amide (PEBA) foam, is one good choice. For dealing with occasional ice, you can buy a set of detachable spikes, like Yaktrax or Kahtoola Nanospikes. You can slip these over your running shoes for improved traction on slippery surfaces. I've used detachable ice spikes on wintry trail runs and hikes, and they worked very well. Alternatively, you can go the DIY route and make your own pair of ice-friendly kicks by inserting screws into the bottom of your running shoes. Don't worry: We'll walk you through the process. Running gaiters, which attach to your shoes and cover the area around your ankles, are made specifically to block debris and snow that might otherwise sneak into your shoes. Most gaiters work with any shoe, but some trail shoes have dedicated attachment points that make it easy to get a perfect fit. Michael Charboneau Michael is a freelance writer with years of experience covering gear and the outdoors for Runner's World and other publications; when he's not writing, he's usually biking, hiking, and running in the mountains around Los Angeles, where he lives. Expert consulted:Amanda Furrer Editor, Running Reviews Amanda Furrer, Editor, Running Reviews, studied journalism at NYU and writing at Emerson College. She has reviewed gear and covered other topics in the running space for almost 10 years. Since 2013, she has consecutively run the Boston Marathon. She also has a master's degree in gastronomy from Boston University and was formerly a professional baker for two years before hanging up her apron.